# Exercise 1: Render a React app

At its core, React is a rendering library. The following exercise demonstrates that absolute minimum amount of work required to render a React app.

For this exercise, you can drag the `index.html` file into a browser to render the result.

## Add React scripts

Open up `index.html`. This is a simple HTML file generated by [Emmet](https://docs.emmet.io/cheat-sheet/), a special autocomplete plugin embedded in VS Code.

Copy the following script elements and paste them into the `<head>` of `index.html`:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react@18/umd/react.development.js" crossorigin></script>
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react-dom@18/umd/react-dom.development.js" crossorigin></script>
```

These script elements point to a universal module definition (UMD) version of React, hosted on https://www.unpkg.com/. This allows us to run React without installing any packages.

Notice we are pulling in two scripts, React and ReactDOM. The React library itself is an abstraction that defers to other libraries to connect to its API. ReactDOM is the adapter layer that connects React to the Document Object Model, or DOM, which allows React to render web apps.

Note that React and ReactDOM are now both available in the global namespace as `React` and `ReactDOM` respectively.

## Create a root element

Before React can render anything to the page, it needs a DOM node to attach to. Add the following inside the `body` element:

```html
<div id="root"></div>
```

Now we need to create a React root. Inside of the `script` element at the bottom of `body`, add the following:

```js
const rootElement = document.getElementById('root');
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(rootElement);
```

The first line grabs a reference to the `div` we just added and stores it in the `rootElement` variable. We then pass this reference to `createRoot`, which gives us our React root.

## Render to the root

Finally, we can render to the page with the following:

```js
root.render('Hello, world!');
```

If you open `index.html` inside of a browser, you should see the words `Hello, world!` rendered to the page. Right now the text is a direct child of the root, `<div id="root">`. Let's render a simple element.

React renders elements using the `createElement` method. Replace `'Hello, world!'` with the following:

```js
root.render(React.createElement('h1', null, 'Hello, world!'));
```

Save and refresh the browser. You should now see `Hello, world!` styled differently. If you inspect the page, you will see that the text is now rendered inside of an `h1`.